# Notes
Notes for CS 260
## Using Git
- `git clone [repo link]` clones a repo
- `git add [filename]` adds changes in working dir to staging area
- `git commit -am "[message]"` -a automatically stage all tracked, modified files before the commit; -m message
- `git push` upload local repo to remote repo
- `git fetch` gets changes into local repo
- `git status` gets status
- `git pull` incorporates changes from a remote repo into the current working dir 
- `git merge` merges branches / resolve divergence
- `git diff HEAD HEAD~1` compares two commit; `~1` refers to 1 earlier
- `git branch [branch name]` creates a branch (effectively a pointer) to a commit
- `git checkout [branch name]` changes working dir to the branch
- `git reset --hard [sha]` does a hard rollback back to a specific commit
- `git commit --amend` Edit last commit message
- `git push --force-with-lease` Force push the last commit which overrides the last push if no new commits (unless newer commits present by someone else on remote)

## Using AWS
Server public IP: `34.203.16.245`
- EC2 is AWS' scalable cloud computing capacity
    * AMI (Amazon Machine Image) is a template that contains software config like OS, application server, application for the instance to boot off of
- Elastic IP are reserved IPs that will not change after reboots after being associated with an instance

## Caddy
Caddy is a web service that listens for incoming HTTP requests. Caddy then either serves up the requested static files or routes the request to another web service. This ability to route requests is called a gateway, or reverse proxy, and allows you to expose multiple web services (i.e. your project services) as a single external web service (i.e. Caddy).

For this course, we use Caddy for the following reasons.
- Caddy handles all of the creation and rotation of web certificates. This allows us to easily support HTTPS.
- Caddy serves up all of your static HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files. All of your early application work will be hosted as static files.
- Caddy acts as a gateway for subdomain requests to your Simon and startup application services. For example, when a request is made to simon.yourdomain Caddy will proxy the request to the Simon application running with node.js as an internal web service.

## HTML, TLS and Web Certificates
HTTPS is a negotiated secure connection that happens before any data is exchanged, encrypted using the TLS protocol. TLS works by negotiating a shared secret that is then used to encrypt data. 

Web certificates are generated by a trusted 3rd party using public/private key encryption. The certificate issuer is responsible for verifying that the certificate owner actually owns the domain name represented by the certificate. Once you have a certificate for your domain name, you can serve the certificate from your web server and then the browser can validate the certificate by using the public keys of the certificate issuer.

## DNS Records
DNS records are used to domain names to IP addresses (A records) or other domain names (CNAME records).

## UNIX Commands
- `mkdir` - Make directory
- `rmdir` - Remove directory
- `rm` - Remove file(s)
- `mv` - Move file(s)
- `cp` - Copy files
- `curl` - Command line client URL browser
- `grep` - Regular expression search
- `find` - Find files
- `top` - View running processes with CPU and memory usage
- `df` - View disk statistics
- `less` - Interactively output the contents of a file
- `wc` - Count the words in a file
- `ps` - View the currently running processes
- `kill` - Kill a currently running process
- `sc` - Securely copy files to a remote computer
- `history` - Show the history of commands
- `tracert` - Trace the connections to a website
- `dig` - Show the DNS information for a domain
- `man` - Look up a command in the manual

- `|` - Take the output from the command on the left and pipe, or pass, it to the command on the right
- `>` - Redirect output to a file. Overwrites the file if it exists
- `>>` - Redirect output to a file. Appends if the file exists

## curl
- `curl -X GET localhost:3000/api/allUserData`
- `curl -X POST localhost:3000/api/userData -H -H 'Content-Type: application/json' '{"":{"":"","":"",...}}'`